                CSS 162 – Programming Methodology
University of Washington, Bothell - Computing & Software Systems
Instructor: Robert Nash
 
Website: http://courses.washington.edu/css162	Email: rynn@u.washington.edu
Office: CSS Shared Faculty Office	Office Hours: Mon, Tues 5:15-5:45pm
Quarter: Summer, 2011	Lecture:M,W 5:45-7:50p, Lab Tues 5:45-7:50
 
 
 
 
 
Prerequisites

To be adequately prepared, CSS 161 is required a minimum grade of 2.7. 
Course Content and Goals
This course is designed to facilitate a transition from basic programming skills 
to a rigorous process of software development.  You will become familiar with 
higher level programming techniques (recursion, generic programming) and constructs 
(object-orientation, lists, stacks, queues, searching, sorting, design patterns).  
The connection between mathematical/algorithmic thought (logic, sets, functions, 
number bases) and implementation will be emphasized in this course.  
 
 
Textbooks

•   Walter Savitch, Absolute Java, Newest edition, Addison-Wesley, 2007.
•   Kenneth H. Rosen, Discrete Mathematics and Its Applications, 6th edition, McGraw Hill, 2007.
•   M. David Ermann and Michele S. Shauf, Computers, Ethics, and Society, 3rd edition, Oxford University Press, 2003.
 
Grading

Programming Assignments (6-8)                                            30%
Midterm Exams (2)                                                        40%
Final exam (1)                                                           25%
Participation                                                             5%
(An approximate scale of 90s (3.5-4.0), 80s (2.5-3.4), 70s (1.5-2.4), 60s (0.7-1.4) is used.)
 
Participation and Attendance

A percentage of the course grade comes from class participation, which can be summarized as the constructive 
involvement of a student during class.  Attendance is expected at all lectures, and this class’s policy is the 
same as the attendance policy outlined in the UWB handbook.  Usually, each class meeting contains information, 
handouts, assignments, etc. which are critical to the success of a student in CSS 162.  If a student misses a 
lecture, it is recommended that he/she talk to a fellow student who was present for the class.  Individuals will 
not receive extracurricular tutoring due to missed class; but of course, all students are welcome to visit with 
the instructor during office hours with questions about the material.  It has been proven in previous CSS courses 
that students who do not attend class do not succeed nearly as easily or frequently as those who do.
 
 
Class Policies

The labs are the only work items that can be completed by teams of two in this course.
The homework assignments are designed to be completed independently, and all student handbook guidelines with 
regards to plagiarism apply to any student’s work here. Please be careful to follow UWB policies on academic and 
behavioral conduct: http://www.uwb.edu/students/policies/.  Each student should submit their own work without 
cloning it from another existing work, whether found online or in the classroom.  Violations of the student code 
of conduct will result in a zero score for that work.  
 
Assignment Submission

Assignments will eventually be turned in using Catalyst.  The submission site will close promptly at the start of 
class.  However, assignments can be turned in up to 5 days late with a 10% grade reduction per day, and there will 
be no extra credit given.  
Exams
Make-up exams will not be given in this class, unless something catastrophic occurs.  These events should be discussed 
with the instructor ahead of time, except in the case of an emergency (which should be well documented).  
 
Courtesy & Technology

We’ll use technology in this class only to facilitate the learning outcomes stated in the outline and this syllabus.  
Thus, cell phones and pagers should be disabled, and the using of a laptop (or the terminal in front of you) should 
not distract anyone from what the class is currently working on (or should be disabled).  Conversations should be kept 
to a minimum as a courtesy to other students that are trying to learn.
 

 
MessageBoard
                https://catalysttools.washington.edu/gopost/board/rnash/22627
 
Turnin Site
                https://catalysttools.washington.edu/collectit/dropbox/rnash/16420
***
This is the Syllabus Info for CSS342B!
***
This is the Syllabus Info for CSS360C!
***
This is the Syllabus Info!
***